whenever you get stuck in Vim text editor
first 
STEP 1 press esc key 2 to 3 times
STEP 2 type :q! and press enter

this will abort the commit 


IF YOU DONT WANT TO ABORT THE COMMIT AND JUST WANT TO TYPE THE COMMIT MESSAGE THEN
STEP 1 press i (You will see insert text on the bottom line)
STEP 2 enter the message for commit on the top line
STEP 3 press esc 2 to 3 times
STEP 4 type :wq! and press enter


w stands for write
q stands for quit
! stands for forced command



To open the file directly from the git bash:
1. Use cat file_name.extension  to view the text of the file on the git bash

2. use start file_name.extension to open the file 

3. use code file_name.extension to open the file in code editor



BRANCH MERGING AND CONFLICTS

1. to add new branch command      (git branch branch_name)
2. to add new branch and switch to that branch command     (git switch -c branch_name)
3. to switch to other branch do command       (git switch branch_name)
4. To delete a branch do command       (git branch -d branch_name)


for merge conflict 
when you encounter merge conflict there are 2 methods to resolve the conflicts 
METHOD 1 :  By Notepad
            just keep the changes you want and delete the unwanted changes

METHOD 2 : By VS code   
            Just click on the ready made arguments created oon the VS code
            LIKE 1. keep the cbove chnages (Keep the changes of that branch only)
            2. keep the below changes (keep the changes of the other branch only)
            3. Keep both Changes (keep the change of both the branch)


After resolving the conflict do add and commit to save changes
after that your branch will be merge


To create new file in Git Bash only
write the command touch file_name.extension






TO DELETE A FILE FROM THE FOLDER WITH THE HELP OF Git
use command (git rm file_name.extension)


To again restore the deleted file (Not ADDED AND COMMITED)
first use command (git restore --staged file_name.extension)
then do command (git restore file_name.extension)


To again restore the deleted file (ADDED AND COMMMITED)
if the deleted file is added and commited and you again want to restore it then

STEP 1: use command git log --oneline
(and copy the commit code in which the file was present)

STEP 2: then use command (git restore --source=commit_code_paste file_name.extension)
by this the deleted file will be restored

